---
layout: post
title: "The Prisoners' Birthdays"
date: 2014-08-10 14:08:34 -0700
comments: true
categories: 
 - Essays
 - Nonfiction
author: hellender
---
{% soundcloud https://soundcloud.com/hellender/cowboy-journalist %}

Ill again from the vigilance, my mind is roiling. On the loft bed above me, Elliott sleeps. Two men concern me. I know where they are too; One is in prison in Louisiana, and the other in jail in Texas. Both will soon have a birthday behind bars. 

Some have suggested that pills might help these obsessions. What they don't know is I negate the need for my own lobotomy by thinking about these things. From the back to the front, and back again, boom boom boom. These circuits soar over the neuronal quagmires, keep me just rattled enough to stave off sleep and the dreams. This way is best, yes. To be disturbed by external situations rather than internal is more moral I think.

From the slums of my skull come the comparisons. The plea deals, the relative length of incarceration (both being jailed for less than two years now). Both bearing Irish-American surnames, the birthday inmates have inherited an honest history of hardship. Both have the sad eyes of experience. Neither of them are past fifty, and both enjoy to smoke. I'm looking for a cigarette right now, it's all so true. 

Just like the inevitability of death, I like to think about this this because it can be counted on that today, both will be lining up for food, like schoolchildren. Both will be surrounded by people not of their choosing, and I know this will be the same way on their birthdays. It's not my fault. Yet, I'm uncomfortable on their behalf. Some would call it Satan, others PTSD; but what I've got is a borderline case of the blues. So do they, I figure. There's not too much to be happy about for them these days.  Except the possibility of freedom, the hope. Well, I'll be damned, the hope is a wonderful thing. Here's where the contrasts start dancing for me. I tip my head in thankfulnesses. It's not every day that my mind lets me in on my thoughts. Some would call it God, others disassociation; but what I've got is a borderline case of the brains. 

The prisoner in Louisiana is going to be off the block in a year and a half. Being a sex offender, former art teacher Samuel McCarty will have to register and go through probation for years to come, yet he will be outside. I'm sure the structure of his sentence offers some degree of opportunity. Now, he did try to get parole, even though that's not allowed in the terms of his plea deal. He almost got it too, with an error having been in the system. I know this because I helped catch it when he was up for parole after a year, two years before I expected him to be eligible for such. Knowing the structure of the sentence had been helping me sleep, but this opportunity was not to be missed by the convicted molester, and he had enough hope to try. Prison hasn't dampened Samuel McCarty's spirit much, I figure. He will need it, because a child molester who built his career on education will have to be pretty adventurous to make ends meet. As of six months ago, McCarty was apparantly ready for the challenge. I was not, and neither was the system, they think he should be behind bars for a year and a half longer. Spending less time in prison than the system took to put him there, less time there than he did committing his crimes, he will face his second interred birthday out of three soon, and he knows it.  
  
I can't decide how much light I want to let in. I open the curtain, I close it. Good thing the boy's up top, down here's like slow strobe. That lighthouse. That beacon. Those borderline brains I've got are using introverted intuition, but never mind the pop psychology if it's nothing to ya. Don't scry for me, I've got all the flash I can handle in this pan. 

They don't do candles in cells, huh? No, probably not. Does a prisoner get an extra helping of beaver tail when it's their birthday? Do they give their prison birthday buddies stamps and sharps? Maybe, but, no probably not. I'd like to think they get a discount on commissary, at least. I'm probably a little low on blood sugar. Is Elliott asleep or just dead? I can't tell, he's got absolutely no signs of life from where I'm sitting, but then again, I"m under him. My cat sits under my chair, I wonder if she thinks I'm dead. Oh wait, I'm not asleep. I forgot that, better get back to the wowzer thoughts or else I'll be... dead? I'd told Elliott that the beatnik era of our lives was coming to a close recently. I'm 27. I just don't believe in superstition anymore, so if I want the era to end with death, I'll most likely have to be somehow complicit. I always was late to bloom, in some ways. I just want that cigarette.

I'd bet the prisoner in Texas would like a smoke too. Being publicly associated with Anonymous as he is, former journalist Barrett Brown is known to have a struggle with addiction, and not just ciggies, either. This smack-addled satirist initially faced 105 years in prison for posting a link to beaucoup documents from intelligence corporations, some of which were damning. He also unintentionally exposed the credit card data of many people involved in the surveillance industry. When the feds gave him and his mother a hard time down there in Texas, he went off of his meds and into a state. He giggled, he ranted, he threatened. He called it "Revenge of the Lithe". Later that day, a counterstrike from the feds left him battered and booked. Boom boom boom. They had trouble figuring out exactly what a link was, and what laws were broken, but eventually his charges were reduced, he signed the plea deal, and now awaits court. Recently, it got pushed back until after his birthday. He has already served nearly two years on trumped up charges without any knowledge of how much longer he has to go. With enemies in Anonymous, Los Zetas and the U.S. government, this mind in a cage will surely have much else to negotiate besides revolt now.      

It would seem that the government finds a mind a terrible thing, and the rape of my minor person despicable enough to correct for almost as long as a case of borderline brains. With his birthday, the molester will have the reward of knowing it's the second to last one like this. He has a better shot at stability, and that's good seeing as how he'll be out in the community I'm from within two years. As for that muckraking journalist, he will have to wait. For now, I'm sure he knows that he will have the birthday blessing of vigilance. He gets blessed every day, it would seem from his writings. It's like a self imposed structure, I figure. A body needs some things known. Barrett Brown's brain keeps the schedule of a knight as he faces his birthday behind bars, and for its suffering it will possibly be enhanced as one of the more morally engaged minds in our country, if it doesn't go utterly mad. For now, Brown's out of solitary, and so the improved treatment seems a boon for this political prisoner. 

Elliott quietly taps away now, here down on my level. He's definitely alive. A few basic tasks, and he's off into the nether reaches of extroverted intuition, so curious. He knows all about this by now, including my knowing this well enough now to type it out. He understands, he reads, he writes. I'm stymied. Must be the blood sugar. Or knowing that I'm known, or not knowing. Or just something, Satan or what have you it's always got to be something for this witch. I never was baptized. I've read that many incarcerated people are believers. I know these two men on my mind are not. I'd like to wish happy birthday, to the child molester and the journalist both imprisoned in our system. Now, if only more would wake up. Until then, God have mercy. 